The AUTHOR system is primarily a text-to-text program. It reads the
AUTHOR text, and creates text files that are used by other programs
to make final e-document output. One exception to this statement is
the HTML creator, which makes the output files ready to use.

Thus, this product depends on other systems to do a lot of
the heavy lifting (THANKS!).



Required Java JAR's (for Java compilation and execution)
- - - - - - - - - - - -

Since JSON is handled by the Java code, you need all
3 of the Jackson JAR's. I'm currently using:

jackson-core-2.8.8.jar
jackson-databind-2.8.8.jar
jackson-annotations-2.8.0.jar




Required CSS Files (for use when output is HTML)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

skeleton.css (for one mode of HTML, not the default)

poem.css (for default mode of HTML)



Required Javascript Files (for use when output is HTML)
- - - - - - - - - - -
poem.js (for default mode of HTML)


utility.js (for HTML output, to handle images)

reveal.js (for REVEAL mini-presentations)




Required Helper Apps
- - - - - - - - - -

kindlegen -- used only if you want to make Kindle files, such as
   AZW3 or MOBI format. Get this program from Amazon. AUTHOR
   provides templates for the metadata files used by "kindlegen".
   Hand-modification is needed before running "kindlegen".
   
Apache FOP -- used only if you want to make PDF files. Get
   the command-line version from the Apache website. See
   info on "Fonts" below.
   
Calibre -- used to make EPUB format from AZW3 format. Also very
   useful for conversion of e-document formats. It has its own
   viewers, which are pretty nice. Get from website.

Kindle Viewer -- Recommended for viewing Kindle output, to ensure
   it appears and runs as desired. Various versions are around,
   including "okular" (Linux), and Kindle Previewer from Amazon
   (Windows). The Previewer can be made to run under "wine"
   on a Linux system.
   
   
   
Required Fonts
- - - - - - - - 

Fonts can become a rather sticky issue. Your computer may have
different fonts from those used by the person viewing your
e-document. In most cases, this is not a big issue. AUTHOR
keeps the font usage quite simple. We are not a word processor!

The biggest issue I've run into is embedding fonts for
published PDF files for print-on-demand. For instance, to
upload a PDF to LuLu (lulu.com), you must have embedded all
fonts in the PDF file. Be sure you have them around, and make sure
they are specified. This is a FOP issue, and must be addressed
in this case.

For interactive PDF, or PDF that will be read on a computer only,
no big deal, each machine will find an appropriate font, and use
it. Kindle is not an issue at all, nor is EPUB output. The
HTML output is not font-specific. You could alter the CSS
to make it such, it's your call.

